Big sur update (#11)
dortania/dortania.github.io: _posts/2020-11-10-bigsur-new.md

  * On T2's this ECID value is burned into the chip
  * On regular Macs, the first 8 bytes of your SystemUUID value
  * On Hackintoshes, this will either be automatically generated by your SystemUUID value or [manually added with a cryptographically secure random number generator](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Post-Install/universal/security/applesecureboot.html)
* OS Snapshots are now verified on each boot to ensure no system volume modifications occurred
  * apfs.kext and AppleImage4.kext verify the integrity of these snapshots

While technically these security features are optional and can be disabled after installation, many features including OS updates will no longer work reliably once disabled. This is due to the heavy reliance of snapshots for OS updates, as mentioned above and so we highly encourage all users to ensure at minimum `SecureBootModel` is set to `Default` or [higher](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Post-Install/universal/security/applesecureboot.html).

* **Note**: ApECID is not required for functionality, and can be skipped if so desired.
* **Note 2**: OpenCore v0.6.3 or newer is required for Secure Boot in Big Sur.

### No more symbols required

> This point is the most important part, as this is what we use for kext injection in OpenCore. Currently Apple has left symbols in place seemingly for debugging purposes however this is a bit worrying as Apple could outright remove symbols in later versions of macOS. But for macOS 11, Big Sur's cycle, we'll be good on that end however we'll be keeping an eye on future releases of macOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This point is the most important part, as this is what we use for kext injection in OpenCore. Currently Apple has left symbols in place seemingly for debugging purposes however this is a bit worrying as Apple could outright remove symbols in later versions of macOS. But for Big Sur's cycle, we'll be good on that end however we'll be keeping an eye on future releases of macOS.
```

Sadly every year I have to answer the obligatory question, no there is no new Nvidia support. Currently [Nvidia's Kepler line](https://dortania.github.io/GPU-Buyers-Guide/modern-gpus/nvidia-gpu.html) is the only natively supported gen.

However macOS 11 makes some interesting changes to the boot process, specifically moving GPU drivers into stage 2 of booting. Why this is relevant is due to Apple's initial reason for killing off Web Drivers: Secure boot. What I mean is that secure boot cannot work with Nvidia's Web Drivers due to how early Nvidia's drivers have to initialize at, and thus Apple refused to sign the binaries. With Big Sur, there could be 3rd party GPUs however the chances are still super slim but slightly higher than with 10.14 and 10.15.

# What has changed on the surface

## A whole new iOS-like UI

Love it or hate it, we've got a new UI more reminiscent of iOS 14 with hints of skeuomorphism(A somewhat subtle call back to previous mac UIs which have neat details in the icons)

You can check out Apple's site to get a better idea:

> * [Apple's Big sur Preview](https://www.apple.com/macos/big-sur-preview/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Apple's Big Sur Preview](https://www.apple.com/macos/big-sur-preview/)
```

How this differs to previous OSes:

* Kexts can no longer be hot-loaded, instead requiring a reboot to load with `kmutil`

> * [The Secure Boot and standard kernel are now one(ie. no more dedicated Immutable Kernel)](#secure-boot-changes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [The standard kernel now works with Secure Boot (ie. no more dedicated `immutablekernel`)](#secure-boot-changes)
```

* macOS will now always verify the ECID value to the secure boot manifest files(if present)
  * On T2's this ECID value is burned into the chip
  * On regular Macs, the first 8 bytes of your SystemUUID value
  * On Hackintoshes, this will either be automatically generated by your SystemUUID value or [manually added with a cryptographically secure random number generator](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Post-Install/universal/security/applesecureboot.html)
* OS Snapshots are now verified on each boot to ensure no system volume modifications occurred
  * apfs.kext and AppleImage4.kext verify the integrity of these snapshots

While technically these security features are optional and can be disabled after installation, many features including OS updates will no longer work reliably once disabled. This is due to the heavy reliance of snapshots for OS updates, as mentioned above and so we highly encourage all users to ensure at minimum `SecureBootModel` is set to `Default` or [higher](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Post-Install/universal/security/applesecureboot.html).

* **Note**: ApECID is not required for functionality, and can be skipped if so desired.

> * **Note 2**: OpenCore v0.6.3 or newer is required for Secure Boot in Big Sur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Note 2**: OpenCore 0.6.3 or newer is required for Secure Boot in Big Sur.
```

### X79 and X99 Boot issues

> With macOS 11, Big Sur, IOPCIFamily went through a decent rewriting causing many of X99 patches to break and many X79 boards fail to boot as well with IOPCIFamily kernel panics. To resolve this issue, you'll need to disable the unused uncore bridge:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Big Sur, IOPCIFamily went through a decent rewriting causing many X79 and X99 boards to fail to boot as well as panic on IOPCIFamily. To resolve this issue, you'll need to disable the unused uncore bridge:
```

* [SSDT-UNC](https://github.com/acidanthera/OpenCorePkg/blob/master/Docs/AcpiSamples/SSDT-UNC.dsl)

You can also find prebuilts here for those who do not wish to compile the file themselves:

* [Dortania's Pre-Built SSDTs](https://dortania.github.io/Getting-Started-With-ACPI/ssdt-methods/ssdt-prebuilt.html)

### New RTC requirements

With macOS Big Sur, AppleRTC has become much more picky on making sure your OEM correctly mapped the RTC regions in your ACPI tables. This is mainly relevant on Intel's HEDT series boards, I documented how to patch said RTC regions in OpenCorePkg:

* [SSDT-RTC0-RANGE](https://github.com/acidanthera/OpenCorePkg/blob/master/Docs/AcpiSamples/SSDT-RTC0-RANGE.dsl)

> For those having boot issues on X99 and X299, this section is super important, you'll likely get stuck at `PCI Configuration Begins`. You can also find prebuilts here for those who do not wish to compile the file themselves:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For those having boot issues on X99 and X299, this section is super important; you'll likely get stuck at `PCI Configuration Begin`. You can also find prebuilts here for those who do not wish to compile the file themselves:
```

## Death of x86 and the future of Hackintoshing

With macOS Big Sur, a big turning point is about to happen with Apple and their Macs. As we know it, Apple will be shifting to in-house designed Apple Silicon Macs(Really just ARM) and thus x86 machines will slowly be phased out of their lineup within 2 years. 

What does this mean for both x86 based Macs and Hackintoshing in general? Well we can expect about 5 years of proper OS support for the iMac20,x series which released earlier this year with an extra 2 years of security updates. After this, Apple will most likely stop shipping x86 builds of macOS and hackintoshing as we know it will have passed away.

For those still in denial and hope something like ARM Hackintoshes will arrive, please consider the following:

> * We have yet to see a ture iPhone "Hackintosh" and thus the likely hood of an ARM Hackintosh is unlikely as well

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We have yet to see a true iPhone "Hackintosh" and thus the likely hood of an ARM Hackintosh is unlikely as well
```

  * There have been successful attempts to get the iOS kernel running in virtual machines, however much work is still to be done

> * Apple's use of "Apple silicon" hints that ARM is not actually what future Macs will be running, instead we'll see highly customized chips *based* off ARM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Apple's use of "Apple Silicon" hints that ARM is not actually what future Macs will be running, instead we'll see highly customized chips *based* off ARM
```
